>> Kyle Simpson: What we wanna do now is
turn our attention to things that I really
do think we should be using more.
These are more of the right
parts of the Essex and
the first thing I wanna talk
about is block scoping.
So, quickly all motivate block scoping
I've covered these sorts of things,
many of my other classes as well.
So, I don't wanna keep repeating,
but just wanna quickly motivate.
Let's say I have a function called foo and
there's some condition by which I want
to swap those two, like for example
the case where x is greater than y.
Normally, you do something like this and
then you'd say y = tmp; and we've used of
our keyword inside of an if statement.
Now, functionally meaning operationally
the var keyword here is attaching
a temp variable to the scope of foo.
That's what people like to call hoisting.
Hoisting's made up,
that's I not a real thing, but
that's the metaphor that we use
to describe how lexical variables
are attached to their lexical
environments at compile time.
So, it's hoisted to the scope of foo.
But, why do we put it
inside of the if statement?
What is going on stylistically?
Cuz this is the thing that people do,
they'll put their var keywords in specific
locations even though they know they
actually behave as if they
belong to the whole function.
Well, what we're doing here is we're
stylistically saying I want the tenth
variable to belong only
to that if statement.
That's what it's for.
Another example is when you have a piece
of code like this and you do a for
(var i) equals
>> Kyle Simpson: And
then you have some code inside of the for
loop.
The var i here is going to be
hoisted to the scope of foo,
the i is available everywhere, but
why do we put it on the for loop?
The reason why, at least for most of us,
the reason why we put it on the for
loop is because we are stylistically
signaling to the reader of this code
i belong to the for loop.
Don't use it before or after,
even though you can, don't.
Even though you can use temp elsewhere,
don't, it's supposed to be used only for
this if statement.
These are the kinds of scenarios under
which block scoping makes entirely sense.
It makes complete sense in all of
the languages that have ever had it and
now JavaScript has it.
Unfortunately, we can't
just make the var key or
blocks go because that would
break a lot of old code.
So, we had to add a new declared type.
That declared type as the let keyword.
In both of these cases,
the let keyword will enforce
the thing that we were already
stylistically signaling.
That's a really important point,
don't miss what I just said.
The let keyword in forces,
at the compiler level,
it enforces what we already stylistically
signaled meaning I want temp to
belong to the if statement now temp
actually does belong to the if statement.
If we try to use temp before or
after, we're gonna get an error,
if we try to use I outside of the for
loop we're going to get an error.
Because the let keyword is going
to enforce that which we were
already stylistically signaling.
That is how I think you ought
to approach this let keyword
to enforce the things that you
already stylistically signal.
Does that mean that you ought to?
Make all your voters in the less as
some people are liking to say alright
let is the new var there's
a bunch of people on T-C 39 and
this is a strong cult bandwagon
that tells us lets the new var var
is a code smell these are all blog post
titles that have actually been written.
So, should we be using the let keyword
in places where it doesn't actually
enforce some sort of block scoping, for
example, at the top level of our function.
You can, I don't think you should.
This the place where I start to diverge
from many of my peers who teach JavaScript
and I respect their opinions but
I think they're wrong on this part.
They're missing the fact that
the var keyword actually tells us
importance stuff.
The var keyword tells us when
used in those positions,
this is a variable that I intend
to use across the whole function.
The let keyword doesn't tell us that,
its position tells us that but
the let keyword itself does not
visually signal what our intent is.
If you use the var key word here it is
now telling the reader of this code
I know what I'm doing and
I'm intending to use z everywhere.
So, my personal take is you
ought to use both let and var.
Use vars in the places where you intend
to use them across lots of scopes.
Use lets in the places where you
were already stylistically saying,
I wanna contain it to this block.
I think that's what it's good for,
I don't believe in the let is the new var,
I believe let and var.
Let is the new helper to var,
it helps you enforce the places where you
wanted var to be block scoped all along.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Question from the room.
I've heard quote,
only used let in places where you want the
value to be mutable const everywhere else.
>> Kyle Simpson: We're gonna talk
about constant a little bit.
I'm not there yet, so
we'll come back to that question.
I'm just talking about how you decide and
again, just like with the error function,
I'm trying to present you the different
cases here, cuz I want you to critically
think as engineers I want you to analyze
don't just follow some lint rule.
Think about,
which one is more appropriate?
Which one communicates better?
So, [COUGH] some other places where
I think the var keyword is actually
superior to the let keyword.
Because there are places
where I think that is true.
Let's say that I had a line like this.
Let's say that my line
of my vars seen here.
Was actually calling some other function
like bar to get its value back,
no big deal.
I'm following the ES6 bandwagon.
I put a let keyboard on it.
Seems great, cuz that z is
available to the whole thing.
Now, maybe I'm the only one that's
ever had a JavaScript error in
their program but I get JavaScript
errors in my programs, true confession.
And when I get JavaScript
there's one of the ways that I
narrowed down those things of course,
I try to use debugging tools but
one of the ways that I narrow those things
down is to try catches around stuff.
So ,let's just say I've narrowed down
that there is something happening with
the statement I want to figure out if this
is the place where the error is coming.
So, I just casually come in and
throw in my little try catch around this.
Do you spot the problem?
You see,
what I did is I tried caught one error but
then I created another error that's
one of the big sins in all of
programming whenever one fix,
causes another problem.
What's my another problem?
My another problem is now z
doesn't belong anywhere else.
So, even if I figure
out what's wrong here,
I'm gonna get another error
that says z is not divine.
I'm like, what the hell?
Z is clearly there.
Crap, I forgot I had a lit keyword.
So, whatever I'm doing that quick little
like debugging I'm gonna have to remember
in those places this thing
can't just be trying.
I need a var there,
>> Kyle Simpson: Or
you're gonna do what some people say,
which is, no,
what you should have done is you never
should have had those two together.
You should have had the let z separate and
then the z equals var and
its own separate thing.
So, you should add those separate
there's your problem solved.
This is the argument that's often
made there's your problem solved.
Now, what I'm gonna say is this, I think,
this is personal taste,
I think that one of the things that aids
readability in my code Is when
the declaration, the first usage
of a variable is as close as possible
to the declaration of that variable.
By as close as possible,
I prefer them to be on the same line.
But if they can't be on the same line,
I really want them to be
as close as possible, okay.
In this particular example,
they're only separated by two or
three lines no big deal.
But as things go as our code evolves,
you might start to see more
separation between those.
Could be five lines could be one hundred
lines could be a thousand lines between
the place where it was declared
in the place where it was used.
And as soon as you start to create more
and more visual separation especially more
than about three to five lines, now you
have a visual readability problem because
somebody's going to look
at that line's equals bar.
So, wait a minute, where does z come from?
They have to go hunting for that let z.
And then have to make sure that they don't
cross any curly brace boundaries that they
really found it exactly the same
scope as the place that it was so
I think you ought to use.
Your variable declarations
as close as possible
to where you're gona use
them the first time.
That also means that if a variable is used
in two very different places in the code.
I'm gonna shock you and say,
I think you ought to declare it twice.
You ought to declared
up here we use it and
then you had to redeclare it a thousand
lines later when you use it way down here.
You can't do that with the let key word,
you can't read declare with the let key
word cuz you're gonna get an error.
This is one of those places where in my
opinion the var keyword shines because it
allows me readability wise to put that
little notation down there at the bottom.
I am just reminding you the z
is coming from this outer scope.
So, I put the var z down
there at the bottom.
Another place where the shows
up is in if statements.
I regularly do this in my code.
I'll have some kind of condition doesn't
matter what the condition is and I have
a whole bunch of variables that I create
and initialize based upon this condition.
So, I'll say var w = and
var r = over and over and
over again, and then I'll have an else,
some other condition.
>> Kyle Simpson: And I'll have a different
set of initializations for those.
And maybe a whole different set of logic
that's happening in that particular case.
And then I'll do another else and I'll
re-declare them again and again and again.
Do you spot the problem values let's here?
>> Kyle Simpson: I'd be block
scoping those if statements.
These are not really if blocks in that
sense and they're not really blocked.
They're not really scopes in that sense.
They're just collections of assignments
that I want to conditionally happen.
Don't go using some crazy set
of turnaries stuff to do this,
just use the var keyword.
And if you want, go ahead and
be super redundant put the barkeeper
declaration also outside of the of
statement because what you're trying to do
really is not to write as few characters
as possible to write as many characters
as it takes to get your message across.
Because you wanna communicate better,
at least I hope that's what you want.
That's what I'm trying to get out here.
So, I think there are places
operationally and
stylistically that the var keyword in
the let keyword can be used together.
They have different purposes and
one does not replace the other
we have to use them together.